---
slug: "/history/the-painter-en"
date: "2020-12-01"
year: "2020"
title: "ABOUT MYSELF"
src: "https://source.unsplash.com/random/600x600"
language: "EN"
---
Im autodidakt. Constantly searching for flow, my paintings are most of all a product of this applicant. 
I work with form and color in intuitive compositions. Before my 4th. exhibition at Hälsans Hus in Lund 2018. 
Before this exhibition in Hälsans Hus, I asked Magne, who I know from Tango, if he wanted to write something, about my pictures, which he saw a part of, on 2 occasions, especially my production from 2017 and 2018. I know from conversation that he is interested in image creation. not only in his professional role, as a psychologist and psychodynamic psychotherapist with an interest in the unconscious soul life and how this can unfold in works of art, but also from a more philosophical perspective. I thought it was nice that he wanted to spend some time reflecting on my pictures. It is of course possible to look at pictures without this text.

*Review made by Magne Andreas Ness* 

After studying Knud's painting, I have made some reflections and interpretations of what I have seen. His images are essentially composed through an abstract and non-figurative imagery. Since they do not depict a concrete and realistic reality, they allow for many possibilities for interpretation. The images give an appealing impression in that the image surface is well matched so that colors and shapes form together in a harmonious whole. Shapes and colors work together so that characteristics and personal sound emerge. He has a special ability to let the shapes dance across the image surface, arranged a certain rhythm. Although the forms in his painting do not depict a concrete reality, something I perceive arises on the image surface, as a poetic reality. This rhythmic, poetic play I see in the pictures, I think can also reflect his background, as a dancer. His pictorial surfaces are movement and tell of something, which has been through a development and is embodied in pictorial expressions of a lived experience. When I try to understand an image composition, I benefit greatly from using specific color theories. The way I perceive the colors in Knud's pictures, I think he has many elements, which remind Johan Johan Goethe's understanding of color. In particular, it is Knud's use of black and the combination of purple / green that makes me think of his colors in this perspective. In addition to the purely Estonian, Goethe perceives colors to also have psychological and spiritual content. The founder of abstract painting, Vasily Kandisky, has, precisely through this theory of color, contributed to the development of modern abstract art. By applying Goethe's theory, I also think it is possible to read, a deeper and more psychological understanding reading in Knud's pictures. In such an understanding, colors refer to a developmental process from darkness to light. The colors can be considered, as a driving force to fight out, of dark states of mind. Colors are carriers of light, which transform life experiences, as characterized by darkness into mature insights, which bring man forward. That Experiences, which are characterized by a darkness, are processed, is expressed in the images through the colors, but the darkness is necessary, to create the contrasts, which give the colors strength. Thus, the pictures also give associations to Knud's struggles through life and moving forward. Which at the same time will belong to every human life processes ”. 

